welcome to the program it's
1900 GMT that's 10 p.m. in Gaza and
Israel where the war is now into its
fourth day the Israeli military is
bombarding Gaza Hamas is launching more
Rockets and the death toll on both sides
is rising air and artillery strikes on
Gaza have pounded the strip from north
to south targeting the port within the
last few hours at least 830 Palestinian
have been killed and more than 900
Israelis have died since Hamas launched
its surprise military operation on
Saturday Hamas has vowed to respond to
all Israeli strikes on Gaza with equal
force it fired a barrage of hundreds of
rockets towards Southern Israel it
targeted the port city of ashalon after
earlier warning people to leave Israel
has also imposed a total Siege on Gaza
cutting off all supplies of food water
and fuel the European Union has opposed
the move US President Joe Biden has
confirmed that 14 Americans were killed
in hamas's military operation he also
reiterated Washington's support for
Israel we must be Crystal Clear we stand
with
Israel we stand with
Israel and we will make sure Israel has
what it needs to take care of its
citizens defend itself and respond to
this attack there's no justification for
terrorism there's no
excuse Hamas does not stand for the
Palestinians people's right to dignity
and
self-determination the state of purposes
the annihilation of the state of Israel
and the murder of Jewish
people they use Palestinian civilians as
human
Shields mamas offers nothing but Terror
and bloodshed with no
regard to who pays the
price there are growing concerns about
the humanitarian situation in Gaza
here's our reporter Russell Suter with
the
latest building after building block
after
block all are now
leveled many people inside including
children and the elderly did not have
time to
escape by midday on Tuesday Israel had
bombed nearly 2,000 locations in the L
populated Gaza Strip and promised to
intensify its assault leaving the 2.3
million Palestinians living there with
nowhere to
go the Israeli Army made a phone call to
a person who wasn't here he was in alal
we came running and they told one of our
neighbors that the building has to be
evacuated where should they go they said
they can go to the Sea people started
running and suddenly we heard an
explosion my brother's two children were
standing in the doorway they were
killed on Monday the Israeli defense
minister announced a Complete Siege of
the Gaza stre cutting off supplies of
electricity fuel food and
water the unrelenting bombardment of
homes communication Towers hospitals
roads and Moses has become a daily
occurrence our area alal is a quiet area
but when I came here I didn't recognize
it it's completely destroyed all its
features have changed this is unfair
this is Terrorism there's no Humanity
families here live in peace and do not
have any links to anything what happened
was Revenge a
crime people are searching for survivors
under the rubble nowhere is safe and
there is nowhere to go they
say we are told to evacuate the eastern
part of Kanan yunus and go to a safe
place but there is no safe place in the
Gaza
Strip This Hospital in Rafa is under
staffed and under equipped and the
number of people arriving here needing
treatment keeps growing some of these
children's parents have died many don't
know yet how much they have
lost now there's a real Massacre being
committed against innocent civilians in
the Sabra area there are dozens of
victims and ambulances and civilian
vehicles are still evacuating the
victims from this that was directly
targeted journalists reporting on the
front lines of this war have also become
targets they like many of gaza's faces
are now gone
forever the Israeli air strikes have
already killed hundreds of people and
injured
thousands but people in Gaza fear the
worst is still to come RAR Al
jazer okay let's head to TK Abu AUM
who's in Gaza for us T we've seen
multiple strikes across the city and
boats have also been hit in the port
what's the latest on the
ground well the Israeli occupation Army
continues targeting and bounding the
Gaza Strip with heavy bombardment during
the past hour the main concentration of
the Israeli targets was in the Norther
northern areas of the Gaza Strip uh
which was uh severely uh bombarded and
destructed during uh the past hour as
well yet the number of uh the casualties
in these uh strucked areas is not yet
confirmed and still unknown but
according to the latest updates released
by the Palestinian Ministry of Health
inside the Gaza trip in a Paris
conference it has stated that the the
death uh toll has increased to around
900 Palestinian killed on the hands of
the Israeli occupation and uh including
are
260 kid among the victims um uh Israel
is still shuttering and ordered to the
cut off of electricity water and Food
Supplies to the Gaza Strip at the
current moment so the situation in the
Gaza Strip is exacerbating Amed the
ongoing closure of borders yes that
brings me to my next question TK we know
hospitals are overwhelmed and there are
180,000 people displaced what's the
humanity Arian situation we're heading
towards well the humanitarian situation
is detering due to the ongoing strikes
of uh the Israeli occupation now uh we
can say that uh more than 200,000
Palestinian according to the United
Nations have uh been displaced from the
houses uh they hi it to uh find a a sh a
safe shelter for themselves now the main
shelter was afforded for them uh were
the Ona schools generally so now the
capacity of on school has been uh full
uh during the last couple of days or
since the early eruption of this
conflict now uh the other part of the
Palestinian people now they still living
in their houses but Main in fact they
have such a great shortage of
electricity so they cannot even sometime
afford the basic needs uh Amed the
ongoing closure of uh uh borders now uh
the uh Gaza Strip even is suffering from
the uh destruction of some phone
networks telecommunication networks so
the uh sometimes the phone connection
might be uh caught due to the Israeli uh
destruction of telecommunication uh
satellite telecommunication uh Towers
inside this strip as well okay thanks so
much for the update TK Abu AUM in
Gaza thank
you I'm joined by Muhammad Jam jum now
who is live for us in ashod in southern
Israel near the border with Gaza um
Muhammad explain where you are and just
how fluid is the situation at the
moment yes
yes have we got
Muhammad I'll just I'll just double
check if we've got Muhammad there
Muhammad it's an incredibly fluid
situation explain to us where you are
and what's
happening
Emily we're in ashdod uh the city of
ashdod and just in the past hour uh well
actually hour and a half security
situations become extremely tenuous
we've had to come indoors the last live
shot I was doing with you all in the
past hour we were talking about the fact
that there had been uh a massive influx
of security uh outside uh of of this uh
of this hotel that intersection you had
soldiers you had police you had
reservists all show up and what we were
told as they were concerned that there
might be an infiltration from the
coastline of Hamas Fighters we were then
ordered to come inside of this local
hotel that's where we are right now
we're Sheltering in place um in the last
15 20 minutes we've heard multiple
rounds of shots going on around the
hotel it's become very very tense the
security people telling us we need to
stay in place we are not allowed to go
outside at the moment I don't know if
you can see from our view here but there
are uh if we just Pan the camera a
little bit there are soldiers that are
patrolling the perimeter here here uh
really going to show just how tense and
fluid and volatile the situation uh
remains um we are waiting to get more
updates about precisely what kind of
fighting is going on here in ashot of
course tensions have been high here in
this city for a couple of days because
you had two days ago a rocket that had
been launched from Gaza land in the
center of town uh as of today earlier in
the day we heard sirens now earlier this
evening we were in another area we were
in zakim Junction which is just North of
the the Gaza Strip ashdod where we are
right now is about 30 km north of the
border with Gaza and yet still at this
hour there is concern amongst the
security Personnel that we have been
speaking with that perhaps there has
been an infiltration from the coastline
of Hamas Fighters coming to the city of
ashad we are waiting for more
information we will be getting those
details to you as we have them Emily
Muhammad How Could An infiltration if
that is the case and confirmed to be the
case how can an INF ation like this
occur given Israel has said as recently
as today that it has more or less
restored
control it is a very good question Emily
and we are trying to get to the bottom
of that as well as those police and
soldiers showed up in the last hour um
and started patrolling the perimeter at
one point they asked us when they first
showed up on the scene they asked us if
perhaps us or any other journalist in
the area were flying a drone there was
some concern that perhaps there was a
drone flying above we don't know if that
actually ended up turning out to be the
case or not we're still waiting on more
details because it is such a fluid
situation and there have not been any
operational updates from the security
that is assembled here but everybody is
on a very much heightened state of alert
and it really goes to show that
something that seemed Unthinkable just
days ago in light of what happened on
Saturday there is so much concern right
now that there could potentially be
infiltration by Hamas fighters in a city
like this 30 or so kilometers north of
the Gaza Strip that's something that
nobody here would have thought
imaginable just a few days ago uh if
that turns out to have been the case and
we don't know yet if that is the case if
that turns out to be the case of course
people are going to be asking at a time
when there is a war going on at a time
when there is a heightened state of
security how could something like that
happen in ashad we're going to have to
get to the bottom of those details at
some point later but for right now all I
can say is that once again the residents
of this town very concerned the security
extremely concerned and it's very
interesting to see just how the
atmosphere changes in an instant here
because just a couple of hours ago we
were at the intersection outside of this
hotel when we were out there at one
point there were settlers that showed up
and they were trying to show their
support for the reservist for the troops
uh the Army members uh that are here
they were dancing on tops of cars they
were playing loud music from their
speakers it was almost a very surreal
almost festive atmosphere in a way that
they were showing their support for the
soldiers for the Israeli soldiers within
10 minutes of that everything completely
changed media was asked to be pushed
back we stayed outside initially we were
told that was okay then we were all
ordered to come indoors because that
shooting started so as I said very fluid
situation we're still trying to figure
out exactly what is going on but
certainly the situation here in ashod
completely different than it was just a
couple of hours ago Emily okay Muhammad
Jam jum thanks so much for bringing us
up to speed
US President Joe Biden has been speaking
within the last hour on the unfolding
situation between Israel and Gaza let's
go to our Washington DC correspondent
Heidi Joe Castro Heidi Biden certainly
didn't Min words did he he did not urge
restraint in Gaza on a phone call to the
Israeli Prime Minister what more did he
say that's right and we are just
learning now as well Emily that US
Secretary of State an blinkin will be
departing to engage with Israeli
counterparts in person this a news just
being announced by the US state
department with blink's arrival due on
Thursday this action follows just
minutes after as you said US President
Joe Biden gave a very strongly worded uh
uh Speech to the people of the US to the
public saying that the US stands
squarely with
Israel we're going to continue to stand
United
supporting the people of Israel who are
suffering unspeakable losses and
opposing the
hatred and violence of
terrorism my team has been in near
constant communication with our Israeli
partners and partners all across the
region and the world from the moment
this Crisis began we're surging
additional military assistants including
ammunition and interceptors to replenish
Iron
Dome we're going to make sure that
Israel does not run out of these
critical assets to defend its cities and
its
citizens and President Biden also saying
that among what the US says were the a
thousand plus Israelis who were killed
in this attack he said 14 at least were
also US citizens he also said that US
citizens number among those who were
taken to Gaza and are being held hostage
he said that that taking of hostages was
quote in violation of every code of
human morality and said that now us
experts would be available to engage uh
to help Israel's uh government try to
get those hostages recovered and of
course he mentioned the call that he had
this was the third call in four days
with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in which Biden said uh that he
told Netanyahu that if it had been the
US that were attacked that the US would
respond swiftly and in a way that is
overwhelming
now it's been reported that uh Biden did
not urge restraint to Netanyahu which is
something that normally the US would do
to try to deescalate situations like
this but he did say something in his
public comments Biden uh saying that the
US though if it had been uh attacked
would uphold the law of war in its
response against Hamas uh not saying
that Israel should do the same but
perhaps it can be read that this was a
warning to do so and Biden also drew the
comparison saying that Hamas which he
calls terrorists purposely targeted
civilians and that that is something
that the US nor Israel should be doing
also he did not address this Complete
Siege uh of the Gaza Strip that was just
announced Biden did not take any uh
questions from reporters but he did say
that the US believes Hamas does not
stand for the Palestinian people okay
thanks for bringing us up to speed honei
Joe Castro in Washington
DC there have also been explosions on
Israel's northern border with Lebanon
where the Israeli military has launched
artillery strikes in response to Rocket
attacks by Hezbollah hamasa kasan
brigades also says it has launched a
rocket attack from Lebanon Ali hasham
has the details from Southern
Lebanon there is a significant
development with uh hamas's alasam
brigades issuing a statement claiming
responsibility for the missiles or the
rockets that were launched in South
Lebanon today this is very significant
because if we put this beside
yesterday's uh Islamic jihad's
infiltration to the uh uh in the the
borders towards Israel and engaging in a
battle with the Israeli Army we're
seeing now a new Dynamic here on the
Lebanese front as I said before this is
an operation area and this operation
area is now engaging Palestinian fa
on Lebanese soil and this is the first
time since 1982 that Lebanese sorry
Palestinian factions are engaging
directly in a fight with the Israelis on
the Lebanese borders this is the the
development that seems to be uh kind of
different than all what's been happening
the past days yes hisbah has attacked in
the past few days Israeli posts in sh
Farms it retaliated yesterday for
Israel's uh uh air strike on its uh
positions today and just a few uh hours
ago hisbah issued a statement uh
claiming responsibility for an attack on
an Israeli military vehicle in a with
guided missiles so it's getting more and
more complicated situation is escalating
day afterday however it's still it's
still contained we can't say that it's
out of control but the more the more
there is blood the more things are going
to go out of
control let's bring in Elijah Magna who
joins us from Paris he's a military and
political analyst thanks so much for
being on the program Elijah certainly
quite a fluid situation at the moment
the first thing I want to ask you is
we've heard from our correspondent
Muhammad Jam jum who's in southern
Israel that there is the potential for
an infiltration to have occurred by
Hamas but is Israel only today said it
had more or less restored control of the
region so how could something like that
have been carried
out thank you for having me in the in
the region of uh Gaza is something and
in Lebanon is a completely different
ball game in Lebanon the the border is
long between 1990 95 kilometers there
are possibilities of infiltration but
nothing would happen without the
knowledge and the will of Hezbollah in
the past we used to see that the
Israelis would close an eye and accuse
the
Palestinians because if accusing the
hisbah they would have to retaliate and
they would have to hit hisbah and then
hisbah will have to hit back so they all
both sides play it down because they
don't want to escalate today we have a
different scenario the Israelis are
showing determination that even if
hisbah pretend they are the Palestinians
even if the Palestinian claim their
responsibility they retaliating against
Hezbollah and against the location of
heah that both sides know where each
side is
maintaining a military location and how
many people and how many militants how
many military are in each one so today
the sorry Elijah I just want you to
break that down for us because we're
assuming
um we've got an international audience
so so break it down in terms of
Hezbollah and Hamas Lebanon and
Israel so hisbah and Hamas are part of
the axis of the resistance so they
indeed work together they have a United
operational room and they are
coordinating uh their military action uh
Hamas is in
Gaza but it's also present with a
representative in Lebanon and there is a
long history of cooperation between both
sides now Lebanon is has its
own way of approaching what's happening
in Gaza because the situation in Gaza
doesn't concern most of the lanese
however it concerns particularly
Hezbollah and the Palestinian and all
the society that protects Hezbollah so
the AIS of the resistance really yes
sorry no no no please finish that
thought
so the access of the resistance that is
not only Hamas and hisbah but also there
are factions in Syria in Iraq in Yemen
they all coordinating their act and this
is why today we heard that the yemenese
are saying that if the Americans
interfere we going also to interfere so
all that will pour into one operational
room that coordinating the acts of every
single faction and they are monitoring
ing closely what's happening with us so
if I'm to simplify what you've just said
we're in danger here of this war
widening out broader into the
region it depends really how far the
Israelis would go so far the Israelis
have shown that they are planning a
ground attack in case of ground attack
the access of the resistance will react
differently and we talking about led by
Hezbollah in this case
so far we have seen
howah was really working to show the
Israelis that it is planning to keep it
busy on the Northern Israeli Frontier
that it is south of Lebanon and to make
sure that there are enough Israeli
forces engage on that borders so not the
bulk of the forces all the Israeli
forces would go against Gaza that it's
important forah to keep the isra really
engaged
our reporter zah hod was reporting from
Southern Lebanon a couple of days ago
and she was pointing out that she had
witnessed what she described as some
restraint from Hezbollah to not get
involved in this conflict and
particularly given what's happening in
Lebanon and the crisis that are
unfolding with the Lebanese people she
she was saying well they're actually
quite hesitant to really get fully
involved in this conflict your response
to that
not quite because hisbah started by
hitting the hill of the radar in theba
and sheba and then today it has launched
a laser guided missile against the tank
that mava tank that in
theory have burned the Israeli tanks so
because the Israelis are not revealing
all their losses and they taking time uh
I am sure that there will be more
soldiers that will be announced killed
in the next days this is how the
Israelis did two days ago when yesterday
there were a clash and they said only
one officer was killed and today we
learned that the are three officers were
killed this is why we've seen the
Israeli retaliation against three
location of
hisbah really targeting to kill three in
exchange of three Israelis and it tells
us that the
commander of the northern front is
determined with a specific rule of
Engagement to respond immediately and
retaliate however we've seen the attacks
today is limited on the demarcation line
within three and four kilometers of the
borders Israel as you're saying is going
to have to divide its forces between its
border with Gaza and South Lebanon does
it have the resources to do that and
will that impact anything that's
happening in
Gaza it has because it has called
reservist that are 300,000 plus the 90
professional soldiers and officers that
are part of the Israeli Army so for that
the Israelis will have to dedicate
around
120,000 to Gaza 120,000 to Lebanon and
another part as reservist to make sure
that the commanding uh could and control
will keep it in case of a third front
would open from the Goen height or they
have to respond to the houthis or to the
Iraqi if ever they are involved in the
battlefield so they don't really know
how the reaction will be and that's why
they are very cautious to put all the
forces against Gaza hence the work of
heah to make sure that is sending on
daily messages to Israel that we are
ready to engage plus the 7,000 of the
hisbah special forces that are very
visible on the on the borders for Israel
to see them and to understand the
determination of heah to take part at a
certain point which is not sure we still
have to wait and see the development of
the Israelis attack on Gaza what impact
will it have if it ends up being a
ground invas
as everyone has been speculating what
impact will that ground Invasion into
Gaza have on this broader
War it will depend on Hamas and Islamic
Jihad really the Palestinian resistance
inside Gaza will be ready to receive the
Israelis that in
2014 Venture into few hundred meters
only so if the Palestinian resistant
will be able to deal with the advance of
the Israelis how far the Israelis would
go how their for military formation is
and then it is up to the military
operation that is working together
in axis of the resistance to decide if
there is a need to open a second
Frontier or second front and then
perhaps use the Drone to start with and
go beyond the borders of Lebanon and go
really start hitting the Inland in
Israel okay thank you so much for your
analysis Elijah magnea joining us from
Paris a military and political analyst
we're going to head to a break now but
stay with us we'll bring you more
coverage of the Gaza Israel war and all
the latest breaking news on day four do
stay with
[Music]
us